[MUSIC]
Let's talk about a couple examples
of models that don't have nice,
clean posterior distributions.
We'll first look at an example of a one
parameter model that is not conjugate.
Suppose we have values that
represent the percentage change in
total personnel from last year to this
year for, we'll say, ten companies.
These companies come from
a particular industry.
We're going to assume for now, that these
are independent measurements from a normal
distribution with a known variance
equal to one, but an unknown mean.
So we'll say the percentage
change in the total personnel for
company I, given the unknown mean mu.
Will be distributed normally with mean mu,
and we're just going to use variance 1.
In this case,
the unknown mean could represent
growth for this particular industry.
It's the average of the growth
of all the different companies.
The small variance
between the companies and
percentage growth might be appropriate
if the industry is stable.
We know that the conjugate prior for
mu in this location would
be a normal distribution.
But suppose we decide that our
prior believes about mu are better
reflected using a standard t
distribution with one degree of freedom.
So we could write that as the prior for
mu is a t distribution
with a location parameter 0.
That's where the center
of the distribution is.
A scale parameter of 1
to make it the standard
t distribution similar to a standard
normal, and 1 degree of freedom.
This particular prior distribution has
heavier tails than the conjugate and
normal distribution,
which can more easily accommodate
the possibility of extreme values for mu.
It is centered on zero so, that a priori,
there is a 50% chance that
the growth is positive and
a 50% chance that the growth is negative.
Recall that the posterior
distribution of mu
is proportional to
the likelihood times the prior.
Let's write the expression for
that in this model.
That is the posterior distribution for
mu given the data y1 through yn
is going to be proportional to the
likelihood which is this piece right here.
It is a product from i equals 1 to n,
in this case that's 10.
Densities from a normal distribution.
Let's write the density from this
particular normal distribution.
Is 1 over the square root of 2 pi.
E to the negative one-half.
Yi minus the mean squared,
this is the normal density for
each individual Yi and
we multiplied it for likelihood.
The density for
this t prior looks like this.
It's 1 over pi times 1 plus Mu squared.
This is the likelihood times the prior.
If we do a little algebra here,
first of all,
we're doing this up to proportionality.
So, constants being multiplied by
this expression are not important.
So, the square root of 2 pi
being multiplied n times,
just creates the constant number, and this
pi out here creates a constant number.
We're going to drop them in our next step.
So this is now proportional too,
we're removing this piece and
now we're going to use
properties of exponents.
The product of exponents is the sum
of the exponentiated pieces.
So we have the exponent of negative
one-half times the sum from i equals
1 to n, of Yi minus mu squared.
And then we're dropping the pie over here,
so times 1 plus mu squared.
We're going to do a few more steps of
algebra here to get a nicer expression for
this piece.
But we're going to skip ahead to that.
We've now added these
last two expressions.
To arrive at this expression here for
the posterior, or
what's proportional to
the posterior distribution.
This expression right here is almost
proportional to a normal distribution
except we have this 1 plus mu
squared term in the denominator.
We know the posterior
distribution up to a constant but
we don't recognize its form
as a standard distribution.
That we can integrate or simulate from,
so we'll have to do something else.
Let's move on to our second example.
For a two parameter example,
we're going to return to the case
where we have a normal likelihood.
And we're now going to estimate mu and
sigma squared,
because they're both unknown.
Recall that if sigma squared were known,
the conjugate prior from mu
would be a normal distribution.
And if mu were known,
the conjugate prior we could choose for
sigma squared would be an inverse gamma.
We saw earlier that if you include
sigma squared in the prior for mu, and
use the hierarchical model
that we presented earlier,
that model would be conjugate and
have a closed form solution.
However, in the more general
case that we have right here,
the posterior distribution
does not appear as
a distribution that we can simulate or
integrate.
Challenging posterior
distributions like these ones and
most others that we'll encounter in
this course kept Bayesian in methods
from entering the main stream
of statistics for many years.
Since only the simplest
problems were tractable.
However, computational methods
invented in the 1950's, and
implemented by statisticians decades
later, revolutionized the field.
We do have the ability to simulate
from the posterior distributions in
this lesson as well as for
many other more complicated models.
How we do that is the subject
of next week's lesson.
[MUSIC]